From Plot to Theme to Thesis
============================

Ellen Foster
============

**Plot**: A young southern girl struggles to find a loving family after
her mother commits suicide and her abusive father dies.

**Theme:** 1. Ellen 2/3. She cares about getting to the truth, the
essence of things, people, (herself, her identity) life (vs. fantasy,
movies, Santa Claus, hocus pocus, etc.). 4. The truth shall set you
free.

**Thesis**: Kaye Gibbons, in her novel, *Ellen Foster*, relates the
story of the title character, a young southern girl who struggles to
find a loving family after her mother commits suicide and her abusive
father dies, and how her unflinching commitment to truth leads her to
what she so desperately seeks.

***The Glass Menagerie***

**Plot**: A dysfunctional family of three, the Wingfields, struggle to
survive the Great Depression, and each other as each pursues his or her
own manner of escape.

**Theme**: 1. Tom (or all) 2/3. They all want to escape in some way
their present conditions. Tom, no longer able to defer his dream,
ultimately does escape, which leaves the other two to fend for
themselves. 4. Those unfit, or unprepared, to live and work in the real
world, will seek escape from it in an attempt to find happiness. (works
for Amanda & Laura). For Tom: One can only defer his or her dream for so
long, can only sacrifice for others so long, before personal needs
outweigh others’ needs.

**Thesis**: In his play, *The Glass Menagerie*, Tennessee Williams tells
the story of a broken family, the Wingfields, and how their struggles
during the Great Depression illustrate one’s need for a better life
where dreams can be pursued, no matter the means or cost.

Note: These are stand-alone sample theses. In an introduction paragraph,
you most likely will not have TAG in your thesis; you will already have
relayed that information somewhere earlier in your paragraph.
