**SAMPLE THESIS STATEMENTS:**

The following samples include title, author, and genre, but in future
years please note that your theses don’t necessarily have to include
these items as your thesis statements can come later in your intro
paragraphs. But for our purposes right now…

**“The Immortals”**

**Plot**: A self-described immortal relates his experiences throughout
history, but he also insinuates that he may be a just a schoolmaster
from New Zealand who is coping with the loss of his wife and child.

**Theme**: Steps: 1. Narrator 2. Deals with pain of losing wife and
child. 3. Creates the delusion that he is an immortal. Why would anyone
do this? Perhaps because **every day without those you care about most
seems like an eternity.**

4\. After losing what matters most, we create mechanisms to help us cope
with the pain.

**Thesis**: In his short story, “The Immortals,” Martin Amis tells the
story of a self-described immortal who, in relating his experiences
throughout history, is actually distancing himself from the pain he
feels over the loss of his wife and child.

Ellen Foster
============

**Plot**: A young southern girl struggles to find a loving family after
her mother commits suicide and her abusive father dies.

**Theme:** 1. Ellen 2/3. She cares about getting to the truth, the
essence of things, people, (herself, her identity) life (vs. fantasy,
movies, Santa Claus, hocus pocus, etc.). 4. The truth shall set you
free.

**Thesis**: Kaye Gibbons, in her novel, *Ellen Foster*, relates the
story of the title character, a young southern girl who struggles to
find a loving family after her mother commits suicide and her abusive
father dies, and how her unflinching commitment to truth leads her to
what she so desperately seeks.

***The Glass Menagerie***

**Plot**: A dysfunctional family of three, the Wingfields, struggle to
survive the Great Depression, and each other as each pursues his or her
own manner of escape.

**Theme**: 1. Tom (or all) 2/3. They all want to escape in some way
their present conditions. Tom, no longer able to defer his dream,
ultimately does escape, which leaves the other two to fend for
themselves. 4. Those unfit, or unprepared, to live and work in the real
world, will seek escape from it in an attempt to find happiness.

**Thesis**: In his play, *The Glass Menagerie*, Tennessee Williams tells
the story of a broken family, the Wingfields, and how their struggles
during the Great Depression illustrate one’s need for a better life
where dreams can be pursued, no matter the means or cost.
