A.  

\
\

1.  

\

2.  

\

3.  

\
\

4.  

\
\

\
\

This last sentence, \#4, would appear in my conclusion paragraph,
perhaps my last sentence, and in that way I would be leaving the reader
with a universal truth. In other words, I wouldn’t just be talking about
the characters in the story—I would be talking about all of us, the
human condition.

\
\

\
\

\
\

**From Plot to Theme to Thesis**

Using Macbeth as an example:

\
\

**Plot**: Macbeth, a Scottish nobleman and soldier, is promoted after
fighting valiantly in an opening battle against Norway. But greed gets
the best of Macbeth, and his wife, as they set on becoming king and
queen through murderous and ultimately self-destructive deeds.

\
\

**Character**:

1\. **** Macbeth

2\. What kind of person is he? He is, at first, brave and loyal. But he
is corrupted by prophecies of promotion, some immediate, some only
alluded to. He is malleable, and lets himself be manipulated by his
wife. Perhaps because he, deep down, wants what she wants—the kingdom.
He is selfish, greedy, and conniving.

\
\

**Theme**:

3\. Macbeth acts on his selfish desires by committing regicide. As his
fear and guilt turn to paranoia, he resigns himself to commit more
murders to protect what he has unnaturally attained for himself.

4\. What does this say about human nature in general? What is the
universal truth here?

Though greed may overwhelm our natural sense of right and wrong, and
allow us to commit unnatural acts, unchecked it will concurrently erode
our humanity and lead us to our destruction.

\
\

(Note that theme does NOT say what we should or should not do, or what
we must or must not do, just what it is in our nature to do.)

\
\

**Thesis**: In his play, Macbeth, William Shakespeare tells the story of
the Scottish nobleman and soldier, Macbeth, and how his greed for power
overwhelms his otherwise loyal nature, and leads to his
self-destruction.

\
\

